There are many other types of secrets apart from the user's
credentials that will be required by your application from your
database credentials to TLS certificates,
keystore location, keystore passwords,
tokens to various APIs your application will use.
Now these are just as important to secure and manage,
and they also need to be changed periodically.
Often when happens is that a secret sprawl develops where
these credentials are distributed to different places in plain
text in a properties file perhaps, some environment variables,
in the source code, in the configuration management like Jenkins,
Ansible, Bamboo, Puppet, and ultimately they end up in source control,
like Git or SVN.
Now this often leads to duplication.
Now one application might source the secrets from a property file,
and another might source the same secret from a database.
Basically, the credentials are spread across your infrastructure.
Now this leads to a lot of uncertainty.
It's difficult to know who has access to the actual credentials
or to audit who accessed the credentials.
And secret rotation become very risky because no one really knows
what the impact is of changing a particular secret.
Will our critical application just all of a sudden stop working because it
used the password hard-coded in the configuration file?
So in the end, we end up with stale secrets that never change.
Hence,
a good option is to centralize your secrets in one location and
provide fine-grained access to those secrets,
only giving clients the bare minimum access to secrets they need to use,
so using things like access control lists.
You also want your secrets to be encrypted,
both at rest and in transit to the client and the ability to rotate the secrets,
i.e.
change them frequently.
And finally, you want audit.
By who and when was the secret accessed?
Now fortunately, Spring provides a solution for this with Spring Vault,
which is an abstraction around Vault by HashiCorp from the Spring Cloud project.
Now Vault by HashiCorp meets all the requirements previously
mentioned and additionally can be configured so that no one
person can access the secrets.
Root keys are changed regularly and are only stored in memory.
It has a master switch to seal the vault in emergencies,
key rolling so that keys can be changed at any time while allowing decryption of
secrets encrypted with past key versions to still continue.
It can use tokens that are assigned to a policy that can scope particular users,
services, or applications.
And it integrates with common identity stores, like LDAP, to obtain tokens, etc.
So let's set up the Vault server for the purpose of this demo.
You can download an unzipped vault from the following URL.
Now in the folder where you unzip the vault, create a vault.conf file.
Here we can add the configurations for our vault server, like the storage type.
This is where the secrets will be persisted.
For the demo, I have used an in-memory one.
However, you wouldn't want to use that in production,
and Vault supports many other types, as you can see from their site.
The listener specifies the endpoint that the clients
can use to create a Vault server.
In this case, it'll be the localhost on port 8200.
In the next property,
we disable the TLS so that our location can connect to Vault over HTTP.
This is to simplify the demo and for development purposes only.
In production, you want TLS enabled as it is not difficult to do.
Vault supports it by default,
and all you have to do is pass in your certificate on startup.
Now using just HTTP exposes your secret to anyone
eavesdropping on network traffic.
You can now start the Vault server using the following command.
Now open another terminal and set the vault address
environment variable to the URL in your config file.
Next, you need to initialize Vault with the vault operator init command.
Vault returns five unsealed keys and a root token.
If we check the status of Vault, you can see that it is sealed,
meaning it has no access to the encryption key to
decrypt any of the secrets stored within.
Hence, no operations are currently possible.
The encryption key is encrypted with a master key.
This is where the unsealed keys came into play when we initialized Vault.
You need to provide at least three of these to Vault so that it can
generate the master key to decrypt the encryption key.
Now this makes Vault secure because you can actually distribute the
five keys to separate individuals or systems.
And on startup, three of them would have to provide the keys to unseal Vault.
Now the command to unseal Vault is simple,
vault operator unseal with the key passed in.
Now if we view the status, we can see the progress.
Currently one more unsealed key is required.
Vault is now unsealed.
So let's set the environment variable for Vault token with the
master token returned when we initialized Vault,
and now we can add a secret.
So we can use the vault operator write secret/crypt
and add the keystore_password.
Now the format is secret/ your application name,
in this case our application is called crypto,
followed by the property you want to set.
Now for our application to connect to Vault,
we need to first add the Spring Cloud Vault dependencies and the spring-
cloud-starter-vault-config to our Spring Boot POM file.
Then we create a bootstrap.yml file in our resources folder.
This is required by the Spring Cloud project.
Now Spring will process the bootstrap.properties file before any other config.
As in this case, our application.yml file,
or any other properties files we have,
might need to source some of the properties that are in the Vault config server.
Hence,
Spring Cloud Vault needs to initialize first before the
application.yml file is processed.
Now in the bootstrap file, we provide the application name,
which needs to match the key entries we added to vault,
the host and port of the listener we configured in our Vault config file,
http for scheme as that's what we defined in the vault config file.
But again, in production, you would want to use HTTPS.
The authentication, in this case, token and the token value.
Now Vault also allows you to generate multiple tokens for
different applications with different permissions,
etc.
But in this demo, we'll just use the master token.
You can now update the application.yml file with the keystore property,
which will now be sourced from Vault.
So now the password is no longer in the source
control and is no longer in plain text.
That's it.
You can even access properties within your code using the @value annotation.
Now one final thing that I'm sure you've noticed is that the master
token is in plain text in the bootstrap.config file.
Hence,
anyone with access to the source code can simply use it to retrieve the secrets,
right?
Which is why you should also configure it as a variable and perhaps pass it in
as an environment variable when starting your application.
Now here I've added it as a JVM startup variable.
Now Vault provides many other ways to access your token, so check out their site if you're interested for more details.